Arms:
Incline Bicep Curl:
How to: Sit on an incline bench and hold a dumbbell in each hand at arm's length. Use your biceps to curl the dumbbell until it reaches your shoulder, then lower them back down to your side and repeat.
Why: Beware: this position isolates the biceps and prevents other muscles from sharing the load. You can work the entire muscle by turning your wrists out slightly and keeping your elbows pointed towards the floor throughout the rep, a range of motion not available in other arm exercises.
Skull Crusher:
How to: Lie back on a bench set to a 30-degree decline. Grip the EZ bar on the innermost grips and extend your arms straight up, palms facing your feet. Keeping your elbows fixed and tucked in, lower the bar until it is about an inch from your forehead. Slowly extend your arms back to the starting position without locking your elbows.
Why: Don't be scared of the name, this is one of the arm exercises for ultimate triceps builders. Set the bench to decline and it'll increase your range of motion for increased muscle activation.
Tate Press:
How to: Lie on a bench and hold two dumbbells directly above your shoulders. Slowly bend your elbows to bring the dumbbells to your chest, so your palms face outwards and the dumbbells point towards the ceiling. Raise the dumbbells back to starting position and repeat.
Why: Working at this angle places more emphasis on the long head of the triceps for more visible muscle separation at the back of your arms. Wearing a vest to show them off at the office is against the rules, sadly.
Wrist Curl:
How to: Sit on a bench and hold a barbell with your palms facing up. Rest your forearms on your knees and lower the bar towards the floor as far as possible. Curl your wrist upward, pause, then slowly lower.
Why: Your forearms will be on display long after your beach body has gone back into hiding, so give them due care. Your grip strength will be much improved come deadlift day too.
Legs:
Goblet Squat:
How to: Stand with your legs wider than your shoulders and hold a dumbbell with both hands in line with your thighs. Stick your backside out, bend your knees and lower yourself into a squat until the dumbbell touches the floor. Drive back up and repeat.
Why: You get the lower body muscle-building benefits reaped from traditional squats while torching your shoulders and arms at the same time. “Goblet squats are a great alternative for those who lack the shoulder mobility to maintain proper back squat form,” says Dick. “Positioning the load in the front of the body will challenge the core and quadriceps more.”
Leg Extension: 
How to: Sit in a leg extension machine with your ankles against the lower pad. Use your quads to push forwards and straighten your legs in front of you, then return to the start position.
Why: Tag this onto the end of your workout – it’s the ultimate quad-centric finisher. “A great strengthening exercise for the quadriceps, which will again help with protecting the knees as we get older,” says Dick. “Again, try using eccentric-focused reps: both legs perform the extension, one leg lowers the weight back.”
Leg Curl:
How to: Lie face down on the leg curl machine with your heels against the lower pad and the bench against your thighs. Bend one knee to pull the pad up towards your backside as far as possible, then return to the start position and repeat on the other side.
Why: “Single leg curls are great for strengthening the hamstrings, and doing so can help bulletproof your knees,” explains Dick. “A great thing to try is eccentric-focused reps – use both legs to perform the curl and use only one leg to return the weight back to the start. This allows you to overload each leg without risking injury.”
Deadlift: 
How to: Stand behind a grounded barbell. Bend your knees slightly to grab it, keeping your shins, back and hips straight. Without bending your back, push your hips forwards to lift the bar. From upright, push your hips back to lower the bar, bending your knees only slightly.
Why: The traditional deadlift that focuses on your glutes and superior end of your hamstrings. Practising hip flexion exercises can seriously improve your sprint speed and agility. After eight weeks of hip flexor-specific training, participants in a University of Florida study saw their sprint and shuttle run PBs(Personal Best) improve by around four per cent and nine per cent respectively.
Chest: 
Incline Bench Press:
How to: Lay on an incline bench in a rack, grip your barbell with arms outside of shoulder width and un-rack your bar. Slowly lower the barbell to the top of your chest under control, ensuring your elbows don’t flare too much. Pause here and press back up explosively before repeating.
Why: Switching to an incline angle can help to target the upper portion of the chest, which may be underdeveloped if you’ve long favoured the flat bench press. This position also enables you to lower the barbell higher on your chest, creating a bigger stretch. You won’t be able to shift as much weight in this position, but what you do move will be more potent.
Cable Crossover: 
How to: Attach stirrup handles to the high pulleys of a cable crossover machine. Take one in each hand – your arms should be outstretched with a slight bend. Place one foot slightly forward, brace your core, and pull the handles downward and across your body. Return to the start position under control.
Why: Cable crossovers target the pectoralis major muscles' sternal heads, found in the bottom of your chest as well as activating muscles in your shoulder and back. The standing Cable crossover exercise recruits the third most muscle fibres in your chest, only behind bench press and flyes.
Dip: 
How to: Jump up on two parallel bars or gymnastics rings with your palms facing inward and your arms straight — use two boxes or the backs of two sturdy chairs if you’re at home. Bend your arms and slowly lower your body until your elbows are at right angles, ensuring they don’t flare outward. Drive yourself back up to the top, squeezing your chest and arms hard, before repeating.
Why: Unlike the humble press-up (which we’ll get to soon enough) dips require you to lift the entirety of your bodyweight from the ground. More resistance = more growth, even with bodyweight movements.
Diamond Press-ups:
How to: Assume a strong plank position with hands stacked directly beneath your shoulders. Perform a press-up with your hands close enough for the tips of your thumbs and index fingers to touch. That's the diamond shape.
Why: The press-up is the ultimate portable pec builder, perfect for high rep blasts, but if we want all of those reps to pay-off we need to focus on nailing each rep by controlling the tempo (speed) and keeping the tension on those pecs.
Abs:
Hanging Leg Raise:
How to: One of the hardest ab exercises around is also one of the most effective. It does need a pull-up bar to work, but can still be done in the comfort of your own home. Variations such as the hanging twisting knee raise keeps the exercise fresh.
Why: One of the hardest ab exercises around is also one of the most effective. It does need a pull-up bar to work, but can still be done in the comfort of your own home. Variations such as the hanging twisting knee raise keeps the exercise fresh.
Sit-up:
How to: Lie down on the floor with your knees bent and, if possible, hook your feet under something that will prevent them from moving. Place your hands behind your head and tense your core as you lift your torso up so your upper body forms a V shape with your thighs. Lower under control back to the start position.
Why: This excercise uses your body weight to strengthen and tone the core-stabilizing abdominal muscles. Situps work the rectus abdominis, transverse abdominis, and obliques in addition to your hip flexors, chest, and neck. They promote good posture by working your lower back and gluteal muscles.
Russian Twist:
How to: Sit holding the weight plate with your arms extended and feet off the floor. Quickly twist at the torso, turning from side to side.
Why: The only other exercise on our list that requires any equipment, the Russian Twist works with either a weight plate or a medicine ball. Much more effective than static rotations standing up, your core must be continually engaged to keep you balanced while the twist works either side of your body. Both sides? That's one rep.
Side Plank:
How to: Lie on your left side with your knees straight and prop your upper body up to take its weight on your forearm. Brace your core and raise your hips until your body forms a straight line. Hold this position while breathing deeply. Then roll over and repeat on the other side.
Why: As well as providing a new angle for the classic plank, the muscles targeted by this move end up supporting the lower back and preventing back pain in later life. Researchers at Kuopio University in Finland found those with stronger hip and back extensor muscles suffered less from lower back pain. Straighten up by lying down.




